Create DDD content (#123)
BurendoUK/burendo-handbook-public: docs/autogenerated-menu/Our Practices/Engineering/Procedures/Document Demonstrate Duplicate.md

# Document Demonstrate Duplicate

> Whether you’re bringing in a new starter, handing over to support, sharing knowledge across teams, or passing things back to the client.  Consistent documentation and training is the cornerstone to make sure the important stuff actually lands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consistent documentation and training are the cornerstones of ensuring important stuff actually lands. Whether you’re bringing in a new starter, handing over to support, sharing knowledge across teams, or passing things back to the client, documentation and training are key.  
```

It doesn't read right as-is because starts with "whether" but the following clause is in a different sentence. Also uses "is" for multiple things so should be "are' and a cornerstone should be part of something - "of" for example.

## Document. 
You make a guide. You already know how to do the thing. Now you just need to write down the steps exactly as you do it. 
_(Document and Demonstrate can be flipped around by having other trusted observers watch you and document what you do.)_ 
Where possible record doing the thing multiple ways and in multiple scenarios. This way, you can watch yourself as an observer rather than breaking your flow by pausing to take notes while you go. Once you've got everything put into the guide, use it. Follow your own steps. Can you do an A+ job only following your directions exactly? If you can, you have the first draft of your guide for the job. 

## Demonstrate: 
You do it in front of the person you are training/handing over to. You sit down and walk them through the guide step by step. This may take a while depending on how many steps it takes to complete the thing. _If they stop you, or slow you down to understand something, adjust your guide for that._
Now you have the second draft ready for them to try. 

>  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Duplicate: 

> They do it in front of you. Now it's their turn. They follow the same guide you followed. Except this time, they're the one doing, and you're the one observing. We just want them to duplicate what we did. So if the guide is right, the outcome will be the same. And if the guide is off, you'll find out fast! Fix your guide until it's right. Then, have them follow it until they get it right. And once they nail it, high fives all round! _(High fives are non-negotiable.)_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They do it in front of you. Now it's their turn. They follow the same guide you followed. Except this time, they're the one doing, and you're the one observing. You just want them to duplicate what you did. So if the guide is right, the outcome will be the same. And if the guide is off, you'll find out fast! Fix your guide until it's right. Then, have them follow it until they get it right. And once they nail it, high fives all round! _(High fives are non-negotiable.)_
```

Switches to "we" randomly

After you train or handover a few times this way, you’ll have worked out the kinks for that job and it’s pretty smooth sailing from there. 
_Think about it this way, if you vanished tomorrow, could a new person get the results you get if they only followed your guide? That’s the level of clarity to shoot for._

## Training Notes

> A helpful way to look at this training style is: If they get it wrong or get confused then we got it wrong or made it confusing. If we have to explain what a step means then the step is too complicated. Or, more likely, we tried to put multiple steps into one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A helpful way to look at this training style is: _if they get it wrong or get confused then we got it wrong or made it confusing_. Similarly, if we have to explain what a step means then the step is too complicated. Or, more likely, we tried to put multiple steps into one.
```

> If they only appear to “get it” after a longish explanation or multiple demonstrations then, again, we’ve got some work to do. Anyone that ignore this run into chronic training problems. And, word to the wise, you can probably force an inferior guide to work, but this turns into a nightmare when somebody else takes over your training for you.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If they only appear to “get it” after a longish explanation or multiple demonstrations then, again, we’ve got some work to do. Anyone that ignores this will run into chronic training problems. And, word to the wise, you can probably force an inferior guide to work, but this turns into a nightmare when somebody else takes over your training for you.   
```

> There is a difference between competence and performance. In other words, they can know exactly what to do and not be that good at it yet. If that’s the case, then your instructions are fine and they just need practice. You don’t need to change anything, they just need more reps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a difference between competence and performance. In other words, they can know exactly what to do and not be that good at it yet. If that’s the case, then your instructions are fine and they just need practice. You don’t need to change anything, they just need more practice.
```

Sounds like a gym set haha

Focus on your trainee’s ability to follow directions more than whether they get the right result. This is super important because if you train your trainees to follow directions then… they will follow directions. And, if they follow directions and get the wrong result… then you know it’s the directions. That’s good. You have a lot more control over that.

> Every time they do a step successfully–let them know they did it right. And if they respond to praise, praise them! And if they goof, that’s OK too. That’s what training is for. Don’t take over for them when they mess up–simply pause, refocus, and let them try it again. Fast feedback cycles to get people to learn faster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every time they do a step successfully, let them know they did it right. And if they respond to praise, praise them more! And if they get it wrong, that’s OK too. That’s what training is for. Don’t take over for them when they mess up. Simply pause, refocus, and let them try it again. Fast feedback cycles to get people to learn faster.
```

Felt too informal

> If they follow your directions exactly and get the wrong result–still praise them for following the directions. Praise them, then make the corrections to your guide on the spot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If they follow your directions exactly and get the wrong result, still praise them for following the directions. Praise them, then make the corrections to your guide on the spot.
```

> Avoid punishment or penalties of any type for doing stuff wrong during training. As a rule of thumb–reward the good stuff you want them to do more of and they'll do more of it. Learning a new skill is punishing enough, we don't need to add to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Avoid punishment or penalties of any type for doing stuff wrong during training. As a rule of thumb; reward the good stuff you want them to do more of and they'll do more of it. Learning a new skill is punishing enough, you don't need to add to it.
```

> It’s hard to fix multiple things when you've never done something before. Give feedback one step at a time. Give one piece of feedback at a time. Practice until they get it right. Then, move to the next step.   Whenever there is a major dip from normal performance, retrain the team. They stopped doing an important step in the process (often because they didn’t know it was important). Once you figure out the step, reward people for following it going forward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It’s hard to fix multiple things when you've never done something before. Give feedback one step at a time. Give one piece of feedback at a time. Practice until they get it right. Then, move to the next step. Whenever there is a major dip from normal performance, retrain the team. They stopped doing an important step in the process (often because they didn’t know it was important). Once you figure out the step, reward people for following it going forward.
```
